
I needed three hackathon to make me truly understand why an UX designer is fundamental in order to design and grow your business.
First of all I would introduce who the UX Designer really is, and why is one of the most requested jobs in the technology sector *(but not yet in Italy)*.

So his job is to conduct user research, testing, developing wireframes based on user needs, he collaborate with graphic designers and developers to create intuitive, user-friendly software.

So as you see UX designer is not just a graphic designer that knows how to use his brain. It's not enough make a clickable prototype with Axure or Paint, he should be really an enthusiastic and creative person, that is ready to explore such difficulties like user behavior and how a product affects the way we perceive and feel just by looking at it.
He facing with cognitive psychology, sociology, marketing, visual communication, interaction design, graphic design and obviously stay up to date about latest tech trends.

As I said before, I needed more hackathons to understand the importance of this professional figure, in fact developers often find it difficult to complete a product in 24 hours, this is where UX designers come in to fill the gap, they translate ideas into simple prototype and facilitate design thinking among the team to better solve problems. 
Often the remaining skillful developers who complete their work in a short time, lose their chance during project presentation, which is the most important step, as many developers aren't as good in communication as in programming (me too).

```
Success = 80% sell, 20% design — Marc Hemeon
```

# *UX outside hackathons*

Importance of UX design:
* **Cuts down development costs**
Good UX design is the result of comprehensive user research, information architecture design, wireframing, prototyping, user testing, and final implementation. UX designers spend hours/days/weeks redesigning an app to meet the needs of end users.
* **Increases your revenue**
Every dollar spent on UX brings in between $2 and $100 dollars in return. [source](https://www.fastcompany.com/1669283/dollars-and-sense-the-business-case-for-investing-in-ui-design)
This is a nice [article](https://medium.com/life-in-belka/2-milioni-di-ticket-in-meno-grazie-a-una-settimana-di-ux-design-c5da4163c2d4?source=---------5------------------) written by Giulio Michelon about that.
* **Keeps you from wasting resources**
When in invest in UX solutions, you’re able to avoid wasting time, and money.  User research helps you detect inefficient solutions and prevent their implementation at the development stage.

# *Conclusion*
Obviously hackathons as well as understand the importance of different disciplines, you can meet smart people who aren't only passionate about the same thing as you are, everyone has something to offer to achieve the goal, hackathon forces you to work under pressure, and that is exactly what we require to be productive and develop innovative ideas.