### Introduction

When I was at the last year of high school instead of choosing a classic thesis about an historical event or a topical issue, I introduced for the high school thesis [snowapp](https://snowapp.altervista.org), an easy snowy and frozen road monitoring webapp, it was my latest computer science project, and I was impressed by a sentence that my former professor said to me immediately after showing him the webapp, those words made me reflect and inspired at the same time. I remember it like it was yesterday, he said: "you could become the best programmer in the world, but if you can't communicate effectively and open up to others disciplines and subjects, it will be hard for you to move up and breaking into the world of real work" and in fact he was right, communication is still one of my biggest flaws (even if I attend Interfaces and Communication Technologies course). 

That's why I'm going to list **3** quick tips to communicate effectively


1) **Listen, listen, listen**
*"Listen more than you talk”*. The best communicators are almost always the best listeners. In my opinion listening is the most important aspect of communication because it's the process of interacting and transmitting messages with others. Communication is effective when it's like a tennis match, with the ball being passed back and forth, a mistake you should never make is to monopolize the conversation.

2) **Body language**
Watch for visual signs that your listener understands, agrees or disagrees with your message, and be aware that your body is sending signals, too. A way to communicate clearly is to adopt proper posture. Avoid slouching, folding your arms or making yourself appear smaller than you are. Instead, fill up the space you are given and trust in yourself.

3) **Think before you speak**
It may sound simple and trivial, but thinking before you speak has great importance and is easy to forget. Words have great power, and they can hurt or help others, so it's important to think and choose the right words at the right time.

And that's all, I hope this post has been useful to you!